YOUR NAME: Grace Herrera

Properties of Water Answer Sheet TYPE on THIS SHEET TO TURN IN YOUR LAB.


PART I: Properties of water experiment (note that your reporting here is in a different order than the tasks you performed above)

HYPOTHESIS:  The thinnest paper will absorb the fastest since the plant the fibers in the paper are attracted to the water molecules in the water and the thinnest paper has less additions to the plant molecules. 

PREDICTION:  The journal paper will absorb the fastest, then the toilet paper and then the paper towels. 

EXPLANATION OF PREDICTION:  The plant molecules in paper will attract the water molecules and absorb at a faster rate. The journal paper is a simple construction of paper. In the toilet paper and even more the in paper towels there is other molecules that are added to the plant molecules that thicken the paper and slow down the absorption of water.  

GRAPH OF RESULTS:   (insert here from excel, cut and paste)


DISCUSSION: 
I was wrong like exactly the opposite of what I thought was going to happen, happened. So the experiment rejected my hypothesis and I think this is due to me not understanding the structural components of different types of paper. The paper towels are made of a more fibrous type of material. It almost forms a web and the toilet paper is of similar type. The journal paper seems to be more tightly packed. I believe that this is what slowed down the absorption. 

PART II
HYPOTHESIS:  The tea will diffuse faster in hot water over cold water. 

PREDICTION:  The tea will diffuse in hot water way faster than in cold water, because of Fick’s Law which states that a high diffusion rate is created by short distances, large surface area, big concentration difference: high temperatures increase diffusion and large molecules slow diffusion. 

DISCUSSION:   The experiment agreed with my prediction. Within a minute of the experiment the tea in the hot water had really darkened while the tea in the cold water was just beginning to show the diffusion happening.

After 5 minutes the cup with the cold water has higher opacity still and the distribution of the opacity is much more even throughout the cup. In the hot water cup there’s less opacity and tea is distributed at the bottom of the glass with a higher concentration. I now understand the rate of diffusion using hot liquids and the way the distribution happens when it’s concentrated and when it’s not.


PART III
DEFINITION OF PROTEIN DENATURATION:   

EXAMPLE:    

